Global Forms (#743)
springernature/frontend-toolkits: toolkits/global/packages/global-forms/README.md

### Fields

Fields take the `type` property to determine which of the `view/fields` they represent. This property along with `label`, `id`, and `name` should be mandatory in terms of your model.

A wide range of standard input/field attributes are supported. So, for example, if you wanted to include a `readonly` attribute on your text input, you would just include a property of the same name on the data:

```
{
    "type": "text",
    "label": "Your email",
    "id": "your-email",
    "name": "your-email",
    "readonly": true
}
```

The `hint` property includes supplementary text under the main `<label>` text but _inside_ the `<label>`, meaning it is automatically available to screen reader software.

```
"hint": "This will be the email you signed up using"
```

The `optional` property affects the field’s label, appending _“(optional)”_ to the label text.

```
"optional": true
```

### Errors

Each field can have an `error` property. The presence of the property indicates the field is in an error state and the property value (a string) defines the error message.

```
{
    "type": "text",
    "label": "Your name",
    "id": "your-name",
    "name": "your-name",

>     "error": "That is not a name, it’s a number"

Reviewer: more of a 'stub'. Does SN Digital have defined microcopy for things like form errors? I wonder if a) it's worth putting anywhere here (probably not) or b) making sure it's part of the Elements Design System site for folks to reference.

}
```

Errors can be summarized using a top level `errorSummary` property (adjacent to the `fieldset` property). Each error in the errors array must point to the `id` of the respective input and repeat its `error` message:

```
"errorSummary": {
    "id": "summary",
    "title": "Here’s what’s wrong",
    "errors": [
        {
            "id": "your-name-error",
            "error": "That is not a name, it’s a number"
        },
        {
            "id": "checkbox-terms-error",
            "error": "You must agree to the terms!"
        }
    ]
}
```

> ### Multiple choices

Reviewer 2: Hold on, radios and select (unless using `multiple` attribute) are not multiple choices. Do we support the `select[multiple]` so far?
Shall we host these in a different section?

Author: @morgaan Terminology clash. I mean each of these elements represent multiple choices (e.g. options for selects).

Reviewer 2: Oh I see, well I'm sure @amyhupe could help there. As a non-native speaker I won't be of any help here I'm afraid. Lot of luck in finding better copy.

Reviewer 2: 💯 just as well as in general when under 5-6 options (Burn you select tags talk resonate in my head)

Reviewer 2: This kind of guideline should make it to the doc actually in "When to use..." or "When not to use..."

Select elements supply their choices via an `options` property, which must be an array. The `selected` property is a Boolean:

```
"options": [
    {
        "label": "Horse",
        "value": "Horse"
    },
    {
        "label": "Platypus",
        "value": "Platypus",
        "selected": true
    }
]
```

Radios provide _their_ choices via an `inputs` array:

```
{
    "type": "radios",
    "label": "Animal",
    "inputs": [
        {
            "label": "Horse",
            "value": "Horse",

>             "name": "animal"

Reviewer 2: Would this make sense to hoist the name property from the inputs items to the field properties. Less repetitive and maybe less prone to mistakes?

Author: @morgaan I attempted that but handlebars wasn't having it for some reason. I might have another try.

Reviewer: "handlebars – there's probably a helper you need to write for that"

Reviewer 2: @Heydon Have you tried `../name`? So far I remember you can use this `..` operator to climb up the context.

Author: @morgaan It is a bit tricky with partials but I got it working with `{{> radio name=../name }}`. Updated the **README** to match. https://github.com/springernature/frontend-toolkits/pull/743/commits/4080e47d08be4220d95554454978c8dde53522ec

// Include this with your other components
@import '@springernature/global-forms/scss/50-components/forms';
```

> Then you will need to register the Handlebars partials in the `/view` folder. 

Reviewer 3: For consistency: 

```suggestion
Then you will need to register the handlebars partials in the `/view` folder. 
```

Reviewer: as a long time owner of Sassnotsass.com I had a quick look at the docs for handlebars … and although the logo is in lowercase they seem to use Title Case when it's mentioned throughout the docs. 

(I'm happy either way 😄)

> Then you will need to register the handlebars partials in the `/view` folder. 

Author: You can, in a later version.

> Then you will need to register the handlebars partials in the `/view` folder. 

Reviewer: > Could we include a js/java example here on how best to register the partials?

This sounds like an implementation detail that would be better documented further up in the Elements docs site, or in the application docs itself, or even somewhere in the Engineering Enablement rather than repetition per component docs page.

> Then you will need to register the handlebars partials in the `/view` folder. 

Reviewer 4: 👍

There are two options for rendering form fields: 

1. Compile each field independently, using its respective template from the `view/fields` folder.

> 2. Organize your fields into fieldsets using the data structure exemplified in `demo/context.json`. In this case, you will have to iterate over a `fieldsets` property something like this:

Author: Putting"over a fieldsets array" to make it more explicit what the iteration refers to.

```html
<form action="some/url">
    {{#with myFormData}}
		{{#with errorSummary}}
			{{> errorSummary }}
		{{/with}}
		{{#each fieldsets}}
			{{> fieldset }}
		{{/each}}
    {{/with}}
</form>
```

### Fieldsets

> Fieldsets are used to group fields itemized under their `fields` property. If you do not want to include a (visible; screen reader identifiable) fieldset element or `<legend>`, simply omit the `legend` property. The following example represents a simple form body with a single, unlabeled fieldset containing two text inputs:

Author: Yeah, it doesn't need to be the element code here.

```json
"fieldsets": {
    [
        {
            "fields": [
                {
                    "template": "text",
                    "label": "Your name",
                    "id": "your-name",
                    "name": "your-name"
                },
                {
                    "template": "text",
                    "label": "Your email",
                    "id": "your-email",
                    "name": "your-email"
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```

Where you do wish to include a legend, HTML is permissable, meaning you can include a heading to reinforce the form and page structure:

```json
"fieldsets": {
    [
        {
            "legend": "<h2>My level 2 legend</h2>",
            "fields": [
                ...
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```

> (**Note:** it is valid and conforming to use heading elements inside `<legend>`s. For visual and accessible hierarchy it is strongly recommended.)

Author: I'll make the preceeding paragraph stronger about using headings and lose this.

> Fields take the `template` property to determine which of the `view/fields` template files they represent. This property along with `label`, `id`, and The `template` property sets the type of field - for example, `"template": "text"` renders a text input field. Aim to make the `template`, `label`, `id`, and `name` properties mandatory parts of your data schema.

Reviewer 3: Something went awry with the resolving of these edits. Fixed:

```suggestion
The `template` property sets the type of field - for example, `"template": "text"` renders a text input field. Aim to make the `template`, `label`, `id`, and `name` properties mandatory parts of your data schema.
```

> This component supports a wide range of standard form field attributes. So, for example, to include a `readonly` attribute on your text input, you  can include a property of the same name on the data:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This component supports a wide range of standard form field attributes. For example, to include a `readonly` attribute on your text input, you can include a property of the same name on the data:
```

A wide range of standard input/field attributes are supported. So, for example, if you wanted to include a `readonly` attribute on your text input, you would just include a property of the same name on the data:

```json
{
    "template": "text",
    "label": "Your email",
    "id": "your-email",
    "name": "your-email",
    "readonly": true
}
```

The `hint` property includes supplementary text under the main `<label>` text but _inside_ the `<label>`, meaning it is automatically available to screen reader software.

```json
"hint": "This will be the email you signed up using"
```

The `optional` property affects the field’s label, appending _“(optional)”_ to the label text.

```json
"optional": true
```

### Errors

Each field can have an `error` property. The presence of the property indicates the field is in an error state and the property value (a string) defines the error message.

```json
{
    "template": "text",
    "label": "Your name",
    "id": "your-name",
    "name": "your-name",
    "error": "That is not a name, it’s a number"
}
```

> Errors can be summarized using a top level `errorSummary` property (adjacent to the `fieldsets` property). Each error in the errors array must point to the `id` of the respective input and repeat its `error` message:

Author: I'm saying `input` because I would expect most specific errors on (text) input errors, but that is indeed misleading.

> You can summarise errors using a top level `errorSummary` property (adjacent to the `fieldsets` property). Each error in the errors array must point to the `id` of the input it relates to and repeat its `error` message:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can summarise errors using a top level `errorSummary` property adjacent to the `fieldsets` property. Each error in the errors array must point to the `id` of the input it relates to and repeat its `error` message:
```

```json
"errorSummary": {
    "id": "summary",

>     "title": "Here’s what’s wrong",

Author: Putting "There are problems" for multiple errors

    "errors": [
        {
            "id": "your-name-error",
            "error": "That is not a name, it’s a number"
        },
        {
            "id": "checkbox-terms-error",
            "error": "You must agree to the terms!"
        }
    ]
}
```

### Making choices

> Select elements supply their choices via an `options` property, which must be an array. The `selected` property is a Boolean:

Author: This would be the only place the element is in code backticks but without `<` and `>` I think.

> Select elements supply their choices via an `options` property, which must be an array. The `selected` property is a Boolean:

Author: Ah, see my previous comment.

> Select elements supply their choices via an `options` property, which must be an array. The `selected` property is a Boolean:

Author: Hmm. I don't like "nest the user's choices"—nesting implies multiple levels of hierarchy. Hopefully, this is okay:

_Select fields (using the `<select>` element) define their choices via an `options` property, which must be an array._

> `Select` fields (using the `<select>` element) define their choices via an `options` property, which must be an array. The `selected` property is a Boolean:

Reviewer 3: I think it's good to specify what "their choices" refer to. I know this is technical documentation, but the more we can do to contextualise it for designers now, the less we'll have to edit later when we layer in the design guidelines. 

```suggestion
`Select` fields (using the `<select>` element) define the user's answer choices with an `options` property, which must be an array. The `selected` property is a Boolean:
```

```json
"options": [
    {
        "label": "Horse",
        "value": "Horse"
    },
    {
        "label": "Platypus",
        "value": "Platypus",
        "selected": true
    }
]
```

> Radios provide _their_ choices via an `inputs` array:

Author: _Radios define choices via an `inputs` array_

{
    "template": "radios",
    "label": "Animal",
    "inputs": [
        {
            "label": "Horse",
            "value": "Horse",
            "name": "animal"
        },
        {
            "label": "Monkey",
            "value": "Monkey",
            "name": "animal"
        }
    ]
}
```

The `name` property is placed at the top level and inherited by each input.

Radios are always grouped together in a `fieldset`, so the group label (“Animal”, here) renders as a `legend` not a `label`.

> You might want to show users an additional field when they select a radio. For example, revealing a text input field for them to give more specific information about the option they’ve selected. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You might want to show users an additional field when they select a particular radio. For example, revealing a text input field for them to give more specific information about the option they’ve selected. 
```

These fields can have any properties of a standard form field. Set these properties using the `fields` property (an array), like this:

```json
{
    "label": "Monkey",
    "value": "Monkey",
    "name": "animal",
    "fields": [
        {
            "template": "text",
            "label": "What type of monkey?",
            "id": "monkey-type",
            "name": "monkey-type",
            "hint": "Chimps are not monkeys"
        }
    ]
}
```

> Unlike radios, which are always used in sets of two or more, you can have a single checkbox field. To give users a set of checkbox choices, organise the checkboxes into a `fieldset`:

Reviewer 3: I think we can tie these 2 sentences together a bit better, like this:

```suggestion
Unlike radios, which are always used in sets of two or more, you can have a single checkbox field. However, if you need to give users a set of checkbox choices, organise the checkboxes into a `fieldset`:
```

```json
{
    "legend": "<h2>Which animals do you like?</h2>",
    "fields": [
        {
            "template": "checkbox",
            "label": "Monkeys",
            "id": "checkbox-monkeys",
            "name": "checkbox-monkeys"
        },
        {
            "template": "checkbox",
            "label": "Horses",
            "id": "checkbox-horses",
            "name": "checkbox-horses"
        }
    ]
}
```

### Buttons

> A `template` of `buttons` defines a set of button controls, displayed inline (using Flexbox and `gap` for tidy wrapping). 

Author: It's at a higher level than the utility, using the utility but in a way that fits with the fieldsets/fields paradigm. I'll make a note like so:

_The `modifiers` property is an array. Each value should match one of these modifiers `form the brand context’s button utility styles`._

> The `type` property for each individual button corresponds to the standard `type` property/attribute. For example, here is how you would include a submit button:

Author: I've just removed "standard", I don't think it's needed.

> The `type` property for each individual button corresponds to the standard `type` property/attribute. For example, here is how you would include a submit button:

Author: Confusion through overcommunication.

> The `type` property for each individual button corresponds to the `type` property/attribute. For example, here is how you would include a submit button:

Reviewer 3: Can we make a choice here between property and attribute, and lose the slash? If it really could be either, can we say "or"?

```json
"fields": [
    ...
    {
        "template": "buttons",
        "buttons": [
            {
                "type": "submit",
                "label": "Submit",
                "modifiers": ["primary"]
            }
        ]
    }
]
```

> The `modifiers` property is an array. Each value should match one of these modifiers form the brand context:

Author: See https://github.com/springernature/frontend-toolkits/pull/743#discussion_r913129487

* primary
* secondary
* tertiary
* contrast
* ghost
* xsmall
* small
* large
* full-width

### Datalist

The text field/partial can have a `datalist` property, allowing you to implement type ahead. This takes two properties: `id` and `options` (an array):

```json
"datalist": {
    "id": "my-datalist",
    "options": [
        "monkey",
        "horse",
        "emu",
        "platypus",
        "cockroach",
        "whale"
    ]
}
```

> This builds a standard `<datalist>` element—with `<option>`s—and associates it with the input. If a `<datalist>` already exists in the markup, provide just the `id` and forego the `options` property. If you wish to implement a bespoke type ahead solution, using JavaScript, omit the `datalist` property from the field altogether.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This builds a standard `datalist` field, with `option`s, and associates it with the input. If a `datalist` already exists in the markup, provide just the `id` and forego the `option` property. If you want to use a custom-built autocomplete solution using JavaScript, omit the `datalist` property from the field altogether.
```
